From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes, a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologist Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
amounting show number 81 recorded
live Tuesday, September 11, 2007.
Support for Hanselman it's just
provided by. Tellerik already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers
journal the world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott addresses listen to
questions about Vista 64. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes, a little bit
of a strange show because
it's about nine 30 in
the evening on Sunday night.
And I'm sitting here in
the embassy suites in Bellevue
getting ready tomorrow to start
my first day on the
job at Microsoft. And I
am more than a little
bit nervous and more than
a little bit nauseous about
the whole idea. I worked
at my last job for
almost six and a half
years, almost seven years previous
job before that was five,
six, six years previous job
before that was three or
four years. I'm not a
guy who takes moving jobs
lightly. I usually work for
a couple of months at
a time at a job,
and, you know, the whole
kind of moving your life
into the next phase thing
has kind of got me
all torn up inside. Plus,
I've been wandering around Microsoft
as a visitor for, you
know, the visitor's badge for,
you know, the better part
of a decade. I know
a lot of people there,
but I'm acutely aware of
what I don't know, even
though I was under a
number of NDAs for things
like the MVP program and
the RD program, there's so
much stuff that's going on
inside that I don't know
about that I'm going to
find out about. So the,
the idea that there's this,
this precipice, this, this transition
that's going to happen tomorrow
with the Nao, the new
employee orientation is a kind
of the power of that
is not lost on me.
I suppose I would have
the same feeling if I
was going to work for
sun or IBM or Adobe,
or one of these big,
big companies as big behemoths.
One of the things that's
attractive to me about going
to work for the developer
division is that even though
the company is, you know,
I don't know what is
it now, 60,000 people or
some huge number like that.
It, there is still a
small kind of community feel
and a couple of buildings
that are, that are taken
up by the developer division,
at least on a campus
on Redmond. So I know
that from an it perspective,
I'm going to work for
a very, very large company
and things are going to
go a lot slower than
they did before. At my
last company, you could just,
you know, be friends with
the it guy in charge
of phones, and then you
would get a new Blackberry
when you needed to get
a new Blackberry. But I
suspect it's a little more
complicated Microsoft, but rather than
me rambling on about my
emotional pain around going to
work for Microsoft and how
weird it's feeling, I am
going to do a little
bit of a redo and
expand on last week's Vista
64 show. So we can
call this the listener male
viewer mail episode. Some good
comments came out up on
the blog with regard to
the moving to Vista 64
episode. So let's read a
couple of comments and I'll
try to expand on this
and hopefully add a lot
more information in this show
that wasn't in the last
one, Carl and I tend
to play off of each
other. And sometimes we get
off on tangents and segues
and nonsequitors, and the conversation
doesn't necessarily go when I
want. So I think I'm
going to pledge in the
next couple of months to
start outlining Hanselman. It's even
more structured to make sure
that I get to say
what I feel needs to
be said about a particular
topic. So comment here from
Abdu who says, I expected
some talk about the benefits
of moving from Vista 32
to 64 or from XP
straight to 64, but the
issues presented were more of
Vista in general. So Scott,
why are you using this
as 64, other than just
being an early adopter for
ms technologies? You know, it's
tough to find that balance
between being an early adopter,
staying up on the technology,
you know, what does it
mean to be an early
adopter? Why are we always
going for the next big
thing for me? I didn't
move to Vista 64 just
because it was the next
big thing I was consistently
and regularly on three different
machines running two ma two
gigs of Ram one machine.
I had four gigs of
Ram installed and actually had
an IBM or Lenovo ThinkPad.
had the four gigs
of Ram installed, but of
course, Vista 64 could only
see about three something of
it. And there's also of
course, the two gig process
boundary. And I was regularly
running into that because I
would run many, many virtual
machines and I would run
out of handles. I would
run too many copies of
IIE. I would run too
many copies of, you know,
whatever. And when, once you
get outlook visual studio and
all running together, a couple
of VMs in Firefox, you
start bumping up against those
those limits, especially with big
VMs. So I needed that
extra headroom. And I didn't
think initially that going from
two gigs to four gigs
would really make a difference,
but I can say that
in my experience on Vista
64, I've been able to
run, you know, four or
five, six VMs all at
the same time, they're all
running a course on external
hard drives. I haven't had
any thought about memory problems
handles or any of the
kind of stuff. Even under
Vista 32, I had had
issues where I'd open up
internet Explorer and the menu
would disappear after I had
too many version of too
many copies of it running.
And I just haven't had
those issues under 64 from
a stability perspective. I've had
once we had the initial
memory instabilities got that handled
during our overclocking, I haven't
had any Vista panics or
anything freaking out. The only
things that have crashed on
Vista 64 for me have
been the things that you
kind of expect to crash
ordinarily, which unfortunately is Explorer
exe, which seems to crash
if a network latencies too
slow, or you, you know,
remove a hard drive while
you're looking at it in
my computer, that kind of
stuff. But I have been
really impressed by the stability.
So I moved to it
because I really needed the
memory. I have four gigs
and I might want to
go up to to eight.
It is significant of course,
that there are different skews
within Vista and not every
skew supports the same amount
of memory, but I believe
that you've got Vista 64
support on each edition, except
each edition of Vista has
a different amount of Ram
that they can support. So
for example, Vista home basic
supports up to eight gigs,
which is still a lot,
but so much with eight
gigs while a enterprise ultimate
supports 128 gigs or more.
Now there's no PCs out
there that could get that
much Ram physically on the
board. Right now, the issue
is how much you can
actually stick together on a
board, but basic and home
premium support, different amounts of
Ram under 64 bit then.
But that ultimate also when
you order ultimate, you get
two discs of 32 bit
disc and a 64 bit
disc other discs have 64
bit versions, but when you
buy it off the shelf,
you get 32 bit and
then you have to call
Microsoft and get them to
send you a disc. But
you know, for the most
part, those aren't, those are
identical. Okay. Another question here,
Robert G a I was
expecting you to talk about
the development experience on a
64 bit box. Like what
does not work? What are
the showstoppers I S behaviors,
anything slower applications, take more
memory, 64 bit.net apps, take
more memory, things like this.
Here's the best part. Do
you plan to do another
show on this topic or
was everything just peaches with
development on 64? Well, so
honestly I found that after
making a couple of just
real simple realizations, that in
fact everything was peaches, you
know, it sounds silly and
I'm not trying to paint
an overly happy picture of
Vista 64, but I honestly
haven't had any major issues
to speak of. I did
blog about one thing, which
was just understanding that things
can be compiled 32 fitness
and 64 fitness. You actually,
if you go up to
my blog and search for
the word bitterness bit, N
E S S I don't
know if that's a word,
but if you search for
it, you'll find that article.
And so basically I get
Vista 64 ultimate setup. And
the first thing I do
is I go into programs
and features, and then I
click on windows features, turn
them on because ultimate enterprise
and business are the only
skews that have I S
installed. Now you can, you
can get the, the WebDev,
right? The Cassini, the small
web server that's built into
vs 2008, 2005. But, you
know, I really wanted to
have iOS on this box.
So I go into programs,
features, turn windows features on
and off. And there's a,
a little trickier because they
give you a tree control
with checkboxes. So you can
have multilevel tree control with
checkboxes. It's important that you
actually have to open up
the tree control. You can't
just click the check box,
right? The highest level and
assume that that will automatically
cascade down and check all
of the other check boxes
turns, even though that's intuitive.
And that happens on many
tree controls on the particular
one I'm talking about in
the turn windows features on
and off dialogue, in fact
does not work. That it's
a little weird. So you
got to go down in
there and turn on things
like  management compatibility. If
you want to use any
of the scripts that you
might already have for talking
to the ISX management objects,
turn on the management console
and stuff like that. So
that was the first thing
for me to learn about.
That's not a 64 bit
specific thing, but remember, this
was the first time I
really started developing on Vista.
So nothing 64, but yet
has come up so far
in this story. So then
I had to pick IIS
seven pipeline modes. There's the
integrated pipeline where you can
do.net kind of ICP filter
type stuff. You can have
things that are like M
HTTP modules on steroids. We'll
do a show on .
At some point, I'd pick
that pipeline mode and I've
got the command lines up
on the, up on the
blog there. And, and then
I set up a couple
of things, no problems at
all. Everything worked exactly as
I thought. And then in
end on my particular application,
in this case, it was
dusk blog and I was
compiling and under visual studio,
2008. And when I ran
it, I got a bad
image format exception. So the
here and now we are
at a example of something
that could potentially go wrong
when you're doing 64 bit.
So you're doing your.net development.
Suddenly you hit bad image
format, exception, not a very
good, a exception kind of
thing. In this case here,
I was using a thing
called the basic date picker.
It's just some control on
asp.net control, but it does
some P invokes or something
internally that is not a
64 bit compatible. So this
is a real common thing.
You've got a library that
you compiled using the, any
CPU, quote, any CPU, all
one word and quote, a
compiler option and.net. And this
is how it's supposed to
work, right? You compile your
app in C-sharp or VB,
and you get an assembly
and it just works. And
the PE header, the portable
executable header just handle it,
handles this. And the automatically
load is the 64 bit
framework or not. And everything
just works. And in my
experience, 99.5% of all the,
you know, dot net applications,
I've tried to work fine.
In this instance, there was
some P and vote call
or something crazy that they
were doing. And it turned
out that I needed to
do one of two things.
Okay. I needed to either
find a 64 bit version
of this assembly, and there
was one available I compiled
against it and it worked,
or, and this is a
little more obscure. You actually
go into the advanced settings
of a particular app pool,
and there's an option called
enable 32 bit applications. This
is really interesting. So on
64 bit Vista, you've got
the option to run your
app pool. That's w three
WP dot exe. You remember
the IIS seven worker process
as a 32 bit worker
process, or a 64 bit
work process sounds kind of
counterintuitive. But if you remember,
when we had that transitional
point between asp.net one and
aspirin two, we had to
make separate app pools to
say, I want all of
my one, one applications running
in this app pool and
all of my two applications
running in this Apple, that
kind of separation of concerns
that separation of, we can
only have one version of
the framework running in one
Apple at a time. It's
the same kind of thinking.
Now it's different in the
case, cause we're basically saying
I want a 32 bit
application unmanaged loading up and
hosting managed applications, or I
want the 64 bit version.
But that idea that you
might potentially in a hosting
environment have some 32 bit
applications and some 64, but
it really all depends on
whether or not that application
is doing something funky with
regards to either a P
invoke or a calm call
to some component that just
doesn't work under 32 bit
process. Now under Vista 64,
the only thing that really
gives you the hint at
any point that things are
different under the under the
covers is when you right
click on the clock and
bring up task manager and
take a look at the
list of process names, any
process that is a 64
bit process just looks like,
you know, food dot exe,
but a 32 bit process
as food IDC. Asterik 32.
So that's the only hint
that you have that something
different is going on. Those
are 32 bit processes that
are being run and kind
of that, that emulation mode
that windows on windows 64
mode. So if you turn
this app pool into an
enable 32 good applications at
pool, suddenly you see w
three WP dot exe star
32 appear in your task
manager. Of course you can
make multiple app pools and
you can set this differently
for each Apple. So that
makes a very interesting kind
of multiplicity of, you know,
kind of a Cartesian product
of different apples. You could
have 32, but app integrated
pipeline, 32 bit app classic
pipeline, 64 bit app integrated
pipeline, 64 bit app classic
pipeline. So without even getting
into framework versioning versus, you
know, one versus two, you
could potentially have four different
app pools running with these
different, these different features. So
that was something to think
about, not a huge deal
if you're only hosting one
app, but something to be
aware of that, you know,
the applicant, the process starts
out as either a 32
bit or 64 bits. So
that was important thing to
be thinking about. Now, there
is a tool that comes
with visual studio. You can
open up a visual studio,
command prompt, and run C
O R flags core flags
dot exe on an assembly.
And you can see whether
or not that thing was
compiled as a six as
a 32 bit assembly or
not. And I get to
run that on my basic
date picker, and I could
see the difference. And it
turns out that the PE
header will always say, you
know, PE 32 almost always
see PE PE 32, but
there was a little 32
bit flag. And that 30
cubit flag basically is asking
the loader to say, you
know, I really insist that
this be running a 32
bit process, or I really
insist that this not be
running a 32 week process.
And you can flip this
flag, actually the core flags
that you see and you
can actually force it. But
of course, theoretically, the user,
the developer, rather who wrote
that assembly knows, knows best.
Ultimately though, that is a,
that is a suggestion. That
flag is a suggestion. It's
not a rule for me
unless you're doing some funky
P invoke stuff. And I
don't mean to always say
funky before, before P and
vote, but unless you're calling
unmanaged code in a way
that is not 64 bit
compatible than you really shouldn't
bump into these kinds of
things, especially under asp.net, I
could see potentially with a
WinForms application, you might be
doing some, some funny painting
things or something as far
as talking to device drivers
and things, but for asp.net,
straight talking to a database,
I just can't imagine why
you'd have that problem. So
for me, converting DAS blog
to run in 64 bit
was a matter of finding
that one assembly that was
not 64 bit compatible and
swapping it out. And I
would suspect that in most
environments, that's rare. Now, if
you are using third party
libraries and those third party
libraries are using, obfuscators sometimes
the act of running an
Obfuscator on an assembly, suddenly
forces the bit a rule.
So you might have written
your code in a perfectly
reasonable, any CPU kind of
a way, but at the
office gate or flipped it
to being 32 bit or
64 bit, that may be
what happened in the, in
the basic date picker case.
But you know, if you're
not doing that, you're not
gonna have to worry about
it. But if you are
using office colors, you might
want to talk to your
office, get our vendor to
see if that's something that
is the case. Somebody other
questions came up about drivers.
You know, what kind of
effort was it to move
to 64? Now, I would
say if you've, if you've
only got two gigs of
Ram and you know, your
system has two gigs around
there probably isn't a benefit
to moving to 64 bit.
That's just my opinion. I
would say, unless you have
four gigs around where you
really want to have more
than four gigs, there's probably
no benefit, but as a,
as a memory hog, that's
like I said before, I
primarily why I wanted to
do it. Now, I work
with Jeff Atwood on the
computer. We did a complete
inventory of our hardware, and
we said, what 64 bit
drivers are available and what
are we willing to jettison?
What piece of hardware are
we willing to toss? Now?
I was lucky because the,
the only hardware I think
I had to get rid
of was a, a camera
like a web camera and
a scanner, but it turned
out that my Canon Pixma
MP 5,500, multi-function had a
great 64 bit driver. I
think it's reasonable to assume
that some of the larger
companies that are out there,
the big ones, like the
Epson and the HPS will
have 64 bit drivers. But
it's also fair to assume
that if the piece of
hardware is a couple of
years old, they might not
have bothered. Now that picks
my line of multifunction printer
scanners. It's fairly new. So
I was pleased that my
year and a half old
two year old printer scanner
thing was, was, had a
perfectly good 64 bit driver
worked just fine, but you
know, my little Logitech quick
cam, it seemed reasonable that,
that the thing was that
old, of course, on a
six 64 bit Vista, you
don't want to spend a
lot of time trying to,
trying to hack into it.
I, I, it seems kind
of a silly thing to
say, but I really was
concerned about stability. And I
was, I was teased by
a number of, of listeners
and blog readers by I
purchased an iPhone recently. And
while I was able to
get iTunes installed on Vista
64 without too much trouble.
Last week when I tried
to activate the iPhone, I
didn't bother to Google first.
I figured if I tuned
was installed, why wouldn't the
iPhone be able to, to
activate? Well, of course, iTunes
includes a number of things
that are driver related. The
first being CD burning, it
includes a tool called gear
that is an S PTD
driver for burning, and that
doesn't, isn't compatible with the
CD burning driver for Damon
tools. So my CD burning
doesn't work, but apparently also
the driver that talks to
the iPhone for the purposes
of activation also doesn't work.
And so I was kind
of teased mercilessly mercilessly by
you people, a tongue in
cheek. And I think the
gentleman's name, let me see,
I'm scrolling down here. Here
we go. Mike van Mike
van earlier, when I w
putting together the, the Vista
64 machine said, don't install
anything on the machine use
VMs. My Gran was the
guy who kind of convinced
me that this VM way
of doing things was, was
the way. And when I
recently published my 2007 tools
list, I I've got about
six or seven virtual machines.
I've got one for rails
development. I've got a new
Boone, two machine, I've got
an old windows, 95 machine
for sinking with my Newton.
And I've got a machine
that I basically just will
install anything in, you know,
it's a XP 32 bit
machine, a virtual machine, and
I I'll throw anything in
there, but I did what
Mike said and I, and
I'm not installing crap on
my system. So here I
go, and I install iTunes.
And, and Mike says in
the comments here, and I
quote your X 64 box,
sounds like another three months.
It's going to be due
for another re-install because of
all the crap where that's
being installed and patched to
make everything work. It's so
sad. All of us have
spent so much time these
games just to get our
system and software. How many
wasted Hansel minutes did you
spend trying to get this
to work? I thought this
was fine. And he basically
said that this is another
example of how the software
industry is progressing too fast.
Now I have to admit
that it's definitely gonna be
enthusiasts people with a lot
of Ram and, you know,
people like myself that are
gonna install 64 bit, but
I just don't think it's
going to be that way.
And, you know, in a
year or two, when service
pack, one comes out, more
people start installing Vista. You
know, they're gonna start installing
64 bit. And I think
of course, you know, of
course, when a third 64
bits, the only way to
go they'll do it. And
I, and I would say
that I don't think that
the, the Vista 32 bit
to 64 bit transition was
quite as smooth as the,
as the Mac transition. You
know, the Mac OS 10
universal binary transition. I think
it was done fairly smoothly,
but, but if you talk
to Mac developers, there was
a heck of a lot
of development pain in the
background. There were a lot
of developers that were told
that this needed to happen.
You need to get those
universal binaries out right away.
But I will admit that
the way that they, they
came up with the transition
plan did seem a little
bit simpler, but of course,
Apple controls the hardware. I
think that's one of the
things that I think when
people compare Apple and, and
windows, they forget that Vista
has to support much broader
a world of hardware, a
much broader world of devices
than, than the Mac does.
And of course they tend
Mac tends to end of
life things a lot quicker
than, than Microsoft does. Now,
Mike here, he says he
had to install Vista X
64, three times since it's
released. But I think that
he's, he's overstating things a
little bit because I really
haven't installed that much stuff
on the system. And I've
been really careful not to
install anything that installs a
driver. For example, I wanted
to install Bioshock, but you
know, Bioshock installed a root
kit and I didn't want
to be a part of
that. And it didn't seem
like a safe thing to
install, but I did install
steam steam from a valve
software, and I installed half-life
to cause half-life to had
a native 64 bit process
and installed in a well
known directory. And it didn't
put any services or anything
on my system I needed
to worry about. So I
think that the kinds of
stuff that people install that
make their systems unstable are
things like things that run
on the tray and things
that run within the Explorer
dot exe process. I am
really judicious about what I
decide to load up into
Explorer to DXE. I think
the only thing that I've
installed so far on my
64 bit machine is subversion
subversion has its version as
a 64 bit process. So
that gets hooked into my
right click menu. Other than
that, the MEC subversion Damon
tools, 64, which I've been
very happy with from mounting
ISO images. You know, that's,
that's about it. There's not
a lot of stuff installed
on this machine and I
really do feel that it's
stable. So while the iPhone
rant that I kind of
had on the blog recently
was kind of a, an
interesting one because people were
trying to figure out well,
is it Apple's fault for
not supporting 64 Mitt? Or
is it a I, you
know, Microsoft's fault for not
having perfect 32 bit support
now, considering that the issue
is a driver. And considering
also that I iTunes clearly
sucks egregiously on 32 at
Vista. I don't think that
the argument in the case
here that is 64 bit
is the problem. So I
think it's a completely specious
argument that, you know, iTunes
on 64 bit doesn't work,
therefore 64 bits sucks. I
think that iTunes started sucking
at iTunes seven, and there's
not many people who can
argue otherwise with the iPhone.
I ended up getting it
to work just by sinking
it with my Mac. I
brought my contacts over with
Plaxo and brought that into
the address book. I brought
my calendar items over with
spanning sink and sink that
to I Cal and then
everything syncs fine. It's all
happening in the background. And
really in this case, Google
calendar is ending up being
the hub. It's unfortunate, but
I will give Apple this.
Their stuff works great with
their stuff. The iPhone works
fantastic. As long as I
just don't let it talk
to my Vista machine and
that'll be a, a, you
know, I'll give him that.
Actually. I think I'm probably
going to give the thing.
I'm probably going to think
back. I'm going to see
how it works up here
at Microsoft for the week.
But I did find out
that I can pull the
SIM card out of my
iPhone and I can plug
it back into my HTC
dash running windows mobile. So
if, if I find out
that the, you know, the
mobiles is really gonna work
for me much better on
up using that, but I'm
really not an X 64
issue. Alright, let me see
if I missed anything else.
Oh yeah. A couple of
benefits of a 64 bit
people have been saying very
vague things about, well, there's
other benefits like security and
reliability of a 64 bit.
So I wanted to really
dig into that a little
bit and find out what,
what is the difference? Why
is 64 bit considered more
secure or more this or
more of that? So I
went up and I found
Jeff Jones, security blog. Jeff Jones works
for Microsoft and he found
three benefits to Vista 64
that are, that are unique
to 64. The first one
is hardware protection was called
NX protection, no execute protection.
This is where you can
actually Mark a chunk of
memory is not being executable.
So if, if a buffer
over on happens, they can't
actually jump to that point
in memory and start executing.
You also call it depth
data, execution prevention, actually a
funny story, a go take
a look at Omar Shahin's
blog. He just found out
that the latest version of
Microsoft money, this is a
Microsoft product money, 2008 won't
run with DEP on, which
is lovely. It actually says
in the release notes, you
have to turn off depth
to get money, to run
very uncool of that product,
to not work. That's why
I gave money up a
while back. So with Vista,
no execute or depth data
execution protection is an opt
in basis where an executable
actually has to Mark itself
as being opt in. I
want to be a part
of this on 64, that's
turned on by default. So
all code by default is,
is being protected by data
execution prevention. Unless you explicitly
go in either turn it
off or turn it off
on a process by process
basis. And then there's this
big discussion that's going on
about patch guard patch guard
is a big part of
the Vista 64 security story,
because when you're doing a
driver development, typically you want
to, you want to jump
into the kernel and basically
patch it up, get hooks
in there, such that people
will call you rather than
calling other things, making chains
and the Colonel change of
intercepts. And that's not allowed
in Vista 64, it's called
patch guard. And turns out
that they're going to come
up with a secure way
to do that. Theoretically, invest
a service pack. One because
a lot of driver manufacturers
got upset when that happened,
but those kinds of things
prevent blue screens. They, they
don't stop blue screens, but
they do prevent a number
of driver related blue screens.
And there's also another thing
where when Vista starts up
in the past in previous
versions of, of windows memory
is very predictable. All of
the different modules get loaded
about the exact same place
in memory so that you
can do evil things because
stuff that you expect will
show up there, Invista the
memory is kind of randomized.
There's a number of different
opportunities for stuff to show
up in different places. I
think it's like 256 different
combinations of places where modules
potentially get loaded in that
early, early point of a
Vista. There's also the, of
course the drivers signing. I
think the number one thing
that has made Vista 64,
a more stable for me
personally, is that you can
install on sign drivers. So
you can't get that. You
know, that that's, it's just
driver from that weird little
company in that you never
heard of for that funky
webcam that costs $5 and
came, you know, came with
a tiny three and a
half inch CD rom. And
you're not really sure where
the drivers came from. I
remember running through the program.
Auto runs from SIS internal
auto runs is a fantastic
program. You need to definitely
Google for that and check
it out and looking at
all of the different things
that got started up on
my system, okay. Started up
during the startup process, not
just stuff that's in the
startup folder, but things run
a key in the registry.
And then that caused me
to go down on my
old Vista 32 machine and
into the system 32 and
also in the system 32
slash drivers folder. And I
encourage you to do this
on your Vista 32 machines,
do a DIR descending by
date. You want to see
the, the old stuff. And
I ended up finding really,
really old drivers sitting in
there. And it turned out
that I had installed some
stuff that was using like
NTT for style drivers, drivers
from like the early nineties.
And those were ending up
in, in process space. Of
course you can use things
like process Explorer, see those
things and found a number
of really, really old drivers
that got loaded by a
lot of the AZ, as
Mike says, crap, where that
I was installing was playing
around. You know, you put
a piece of shareware on
your machine, you see that,
that strange blue gradient, they,
the, I call it the
wise install gradient. Cause you
can see those things. It's
the old style installer. That's
the first time that maybe
you don't want to be
installing that thing, but I
would just punch through, install
it anyway. And I ended
up with a lot of
crap on my system loaded
into memory, maybe not necessarily
running, but you just don't
know how those things get
unstable. I used to have
my Vista 32 machine just
to explore, which has disappeared
as poof and be gone,
you know, four or five
times a day. I'm just
not seeing that on 64.
I don't know. It's probably
a combination of some of
the protection that 64 offers,
but also the fact that
I'm treating 64 as a
whole new world. And I'm
a lot more careful for
installing stuff that really ought
not be on there. So
I think that finding a
balance between what Mike was
saying, and then what I'm
saying, you know, don't be
afraid to install a driver
if it's, if it's available
and it's from a big
reputable company, but, but also
if you can use all
that Ram use virtual PC
use VMware, a number of
readers suggested that I use
VMware because of their USB
support. So unless the program
and, and I do not
know this in the case
of iTunes, but I wouldn't
be surprised cause I've had
a number of programs that
will detect that they're running
in a VM, but unless
the program can detect it's
running in a VM, why
not do that install inside
of a virtual machine first
and see if that's a
safe program, I got an
external drive, I've got these
seven VMs. It's really made
things a lot smoother. And
being able to load a
VM and not have to
shut down outlook and not
have to shut down dev
and the 16 different instances
of IIE and the four
different instances of Firefox that
I've got running all adds
up to a positive experience.
So kind of in conclusion
development wise, there are a
couple of little things around
bitterness that were something I
had to think about. Mostly
it was iOS seven type
stuff, and it was mostly
common sense and I'm documenting
it as I go along.
So you'll find the Google
support out there. You'll find
Google help for these things,
but a 64 from a
development perspective vs 2008, it
just worked. The compilers just
worked. I'm going to do
an episode and maybe a
blog post on multithreaded multi
kind of multiprocessor ms. Build
farms being able to spin
up multiple ms. Builds in
parallel. So parallel ms. Builds
on quad proc machines. That's
not really a 64 bit
thing, but it's more of
a quad proc thing, but
I haven't had any problems.
I've developed a number of
applications just in the last
in little applications, compiled a
whole bunch of source code
in my quest to read
more social grown. Haven't had
any problems pointing to a
64 bit when it came
to the.net development. So, you
know, if you want to
crap load a Ram, you
got four gigs of Ram
or more you like VMs.
You know, I don't think
if you've got hardware that
was made recently, if you've
got a core, two duo
or a newer AMD and,
and brand name hardware, I
think it's worth a try
at least, you know, and
you could do what a,
what Atwood told me, which
is like, pull out your
C drive, put it somewhere
else. I'm not a big
fan of dual boots. I'm
just not pull out your
sheet, drive, get another sheet
drive and try it out.
See how it works. Oh
yeah. I think the other
thing that we saw was
a, some chip sets of
motherboards have trouble installing Vista
64 when you have four
gigs installed, not all chip
sets, but just a couple.
I've heard a couple of
reports of this. So people
basically dropped the Ram down
to two gigs. They do
the install and they bring
it back up to four.
I didn't, I didn't see
that, but a couple of
people emailed me that they
had that problem. So that's
what I got to say.
And now it is a
10 o'clock at night and
I'm going to work tomorrow
at Microsoft at eight 30
in the morning. And I'm
scared out of my mind.
So dear reader, dear listener,
thank you for spending this
little bit of time with
me. And I'll hopefully come
up with a number of
cool interviews and try to
get you guys information. Email
me, email me, and ask
any questions that you've got,
that you might be stumped
on that you can think
of could go to Microsoft
people and find out if
there's a topic that you
think just isn't being covered
in the kind of depth
that you want. You know,
what do you want to
see now that you've gotten
me on the inside? You
know, they're not going to
someone emailed me and asked
me if they were going
to be folding me into
channel nine. That's a totally
different group. One of these
days, I'll do a show
on how Microsoft is kind
of organized from a developer
division perspective. Right now I
work for a guy named
Simon Muzzio and he works
for Scott Guthrie. So there's me.
I work for Simon. Simon
works for Scott and I
talk to Scott all the
time. So there's no marketing
person. I don't work for
marketing. I don't even work
for what's called developer platform
evangelism. So I'm just kind
of like dev dibs kind
of private blogger guy. So
a while we will be
on channel nine occasionally. And
I've got a relationship with
the guys that run channel
nine. Don't expect to see
any of the content that
I do like fold in.
It's not like the blog
is going to become a
part of channel nine or
something like that. So yeah,
I'm kind of an independent
right now. If there's things
you want to see, email
me, let me know. And
this has been another episode
of Hansel minutes. .